The Lexus RC (Japanese: レクサス・RC, Rekusasu RC) is a compact executive two-door GT coupé manufactured by Lexus, Toyota's luxury division. The RC which according to Lexus stands for "Radical Coupe"[6] is a two-door coupé version of the Lexus IS (XE30).[7] The RC is designated as the XC10 series. The RC borrowed styling from the LF-LC concept and was previewed by the LF-CC concept, being designed as a proposal by Pansoo Kwon from 2010 to early 2012 and approved by supervising designers Yasuo Kajino and Tatsuya Takei.
The RC has a shorter wheelbase than the Lexus IS (XE30) though it is longer overall. The platform shares the front end of the Lexus GS (L10), midsection from the Lexus IS (XE20) convertible, while the rear componentry is from the XE30 series IS.[10] The RC has three LED lamps in the triangular headlights and 18-inch five-spoke alloy wheels as standard, or 19-inch ten-spoke wheels as option.[9]
Japan models were set to go on sale in the second half of 2014. Early models include RC 350 and RC 300h.[11][12] US sales began in November 2014.[13] In Japan, ownership of the version with the 5.0 litre engine is expensive due to the annual Japanese road tax obligation.
Initially, the RC was available with a choice of three engines; the RC 300h with the 2.5-liter 2AR-FSE inline-four engine mated to a continuously variable transmission, the RC 350 with the 3.5-liter 2GR-FSE V6 (which was later replaced with the 2GR-FKS from model year 2018 on), and the RC F with 5.0-liter 2UR-GSE V8. The RC 200t (now called RC 300), featuring a 2.0-liter 8AR-FTS I4 turbocharged petrol engine, was added to the range in late 2015. All-wheel drive is offered for the RC 300h and RC 350. Lexus RC AWD versions use a full-time all-wheel drive system that utilizes a planetary gearset center differential coupled with a multi-disc clutch to act as the slip limiting device. The planetary gearset provides a 30:70 front-to-rear torque split under normal conditions for handling agility, however the system can allow for a torque split of up to 50:50 to control wheel slip.
Variants of the RC series have all-wheel steering, 2 piece brake rotors, variable suspension dampers, and a Torsen limited slip differential.
As of January 2020, the trim levels are "Version L" and "F-Sport".
The RC 350 naturally aspirated V6 produces 234 kW (314 hp; 318 PS) at 6,600rpm and 380 N⋅m (280 lbf⋅ft) at 4,800rpm.[14] While comfort and luxury were the aim of the RC series, sportiness was also part of the equation, although its heavy curb weight dampens the car's performance driving capability especially against the RCs direct competitors such as the BMW 430i and Audi A5.[15]
TRD produces a bodykit, several aerodynamic and performance parts for the RC 350, these include an exhaust system, a rear diffuser, lightweight forged aluminium wheels with Michelin Pilot Super Sport tires, etc. The options are dealer fitted and are available only in Japan.[16]

The RC received its first facelift in August 2018, with official images revealed ahead of its 2018 Paris Motor Show debut, which took place a few weeks after. The corporate L-shaped DRLs and the triple eye LED's are merged, making their placements look highly reminiscent of its bigger LC coupe along with a reworked cabin and rear tail lamp design. Base models now come standard with Amazon Alexa integration and a 4G LTE Wi-Fi hotspot.
For the 2019 model year US market, the regular Lexus RC is offered as RC 300 and RC 350. Both models are available as rear wheel drive or AWD, as well as the choice of base or F Sport trim levels, which makes the total of 8 models to choose from.
In most European countries, other than the high performance RC F, only the rear wheel drive RC 300h is offered as the base, F Sport, and special edition called Takumi. The RC300 h Takumi comes with multi-spoke 19-inch alloys and a 17-speaker Mark Levinson sound system.[17] In South Africa, the RC 350 is the base model, with the RC F as the flagship model.
The RC 350 RWD does the 0–97 km/h (0–60 mph) sprint in 5.7 seconds.[18][19]
Following the introduction of stricter crash safety regulations, the RC, along with the IS sedan and the CT hatchback, were pulled out from the Australian market in November 2021.
